xxxii · ’ 000000100101110010101. .

. 001111.

Richard de Luci appointed guardian during the va-

00001, , 139. -Nominates 101 his deputies Hugo de Beche
and Peter de Oriel, two neighbouring land· owners (mi-
lites)-who hold their office 1001 years—and careful and
diligent m the execution 01 rt ,
Richard d'e Luci begs the church 01 Wi for his son God-
frey de Luci-the monks grant him 0 morety 01 11,Ι 140. -
Godfrey begs the 011101 moiety from the King-the King
consents, and writes a letter to the Archbishop 01 Can-
terbury, 10 give Godfrey institution, ltu-This causes 0
great contentiori between him and the convent. , -
Many churches and monasteries 010 vacant 01 this time
-occes'ioned by the contest 01 the King with Thomas d

· ¹ Becket. -The history 01 their controversy.

Richard elected Archbishop 01 (1001011011, lte—

Henry fills up the ecclesiastica] appointments which had
been neglected during the long struggle between himself
and the Archbishop 01 Canterbury3-0n this occasion the
monks 01 Βο1110 (among others) 010 commanded to send
deputies 10 1110οᾶ01001, 10 11001 01 the 0100110001 0 new
· Abbot-the King's clerks bring 'them a mandate for that
purpose—shortly 01101, another message is sent command-
ing them to bring their charters to the court, 147.-
Struck with astonishment, and much dispirited 01 1110
order, they nominate in the meanwhile two of their mem-
bers, one 01 whom the King is to make choice 01101 Abbot.
-Arrival 01 the deputation at Woodstock-summoned to
present themselves first-introduced into the presence of
Gilbcrt 101101, Bishop 01 London-the Bishop demands
their credentials-asks 00 whom their electiori had fallen
-objects to it-assures them the King will never consent
to it-urges them by threats and flattery to make a new
nomination-they refuse, 148-neither party will yie'ld.
-After 0 great part of the day had been spent in bier-1
ering, the King bursts into the room with a frowning

 

