oanouonoorcan aasrnnor. 'xxvii

1. n. 1156, 1157.
Ι11 Lent the Abbot is summoned by apapal brief to

’ attend the chapter at Chichester—professes his readiness

to obey, saving the rights of his church and his order-
attcnds the chapter-his speech on catering-the Dean
answers and recites the papal letter, 78, commancling his
obedience to the see of Chichester-the Dean's argument,
urging the same, 79.-—Offers the Abbot a schedule to sign to
that impert, 80.-The Abbot wards it off, 8l.-Asks time
101 consideration, &de-The Dean refuses, 83.-The day
is wasted in discussion-neither party consenting to the
other-the Dean concludes, at last, with a resolution to

advise with the Bishop.

Α. 1). 1157-1171.

011 his return, the Abbot informs his brother Richard
de Luci of all that had passed at the conference3 at his
suggestion the King commands the Bishop to desist from
molesting the Abbot for the present, 842-011 his return
to England the Abbot meets the King at his brother's
castle, at Ongar, in Essex—the King appoints the Whit·
suntide following to hear his cause-the case is argued
before him, 85.-The Court-Richard de Luci opens the
case-reads the foundation charter, 86.-After some re-
marks by various persons, the Court rises, 87.-

The sitting resumed at the octaves of Whitsunticle—
Richard de Luci again opens the case, 88.-After some
remarks by the Abbot the Bishop of Chichester urges his
claim in a remarkable speech, setting forth the distinc-
tion of the secular and spiritual jurisdiction, 90—this

brings on an angry discussion, 9l—and frequent interrup-
tions from the King, 92 - and othere, 93, 94, 96.-The

Bishop concludes with desiring that the question may be
determined according to the established maxims of the

canon law, 96. Ἴ
The King refuses to admit his appeal, determining to

 

